>>>>1
Fed official says weak data caused by weather, should not slow taper
Federal Reserve
The Federal Reserve building is seen during a snowstorm in Washington.
The Federal Reserve building is seen during a snowstorm in Washington. (Karen Bleier / AFP/Getty Images)
Jim Puzzanghera
Bad weather is largely responsible for some recent weak economic data and should not lead the Federal Reserve to stop reducing a key stimulus program, a top central bank official said Monday.
Instead, with economic growth still forecast to pick up this year, the Fed might need to quicken the pullback of its monthly bond-buying program, said Charles Plosser, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.
"In recent weeks, there has been a blizzard of economic reports, which have come in weaker than expected," Plosser said in a speech in Paris.
PHOTOS: Federal Reserve chairs through the years
"I believe that weakness largely reflects the severe winter weather rather than a frozen recovery," he said. "So, we must be wary of attaching too much significance to the latest numbers."
Concerns about a slowdown eased Friday when the Labor Department reported stronger than expected job growth in February. The report confirmed the belief that snow and bitter cold in much of the country were the main reason for some weak economic data and that growth would improve in the spring.
Plosser, a voting member of the policymaking Federal Open Market Committee, is a so-called inflation hawk. He has opposed the Fed's bond-buying program, which began in September 2012 with purchases of $85 billion a month, out of concerns it could trigger higher prices.
So far, however, inflation has remained in check.
After the speech, Plosser told reporters that the Fed should stick to the plan announced in December of reducing the monthly bond purchases by $10 billion at each future meeting.
"It's important that we send a signal that we are pretty committed to this current pace," he said, according to Reuters. "The threshold is pretty high going forward before the committee would be willing to change it."
Fed policymakers meet next week, the first session under the central bank's new chief, Janet L. Yellen . Officials voted to reduce the bond purchases at their December and January meetings. The Federal Open Market Committee did not meet in February.
Plosser said he expected U.S. economic growth to improve this year to 3%. That's in line with forecasts by other Fed policymakers of 2.8% to 3.2% growth this year.
"While this is far from the robust growth that many would like to see, it continues to represent steady progress and an improving economy," he said.
With the economy expanding faster, the Fed might need to move quicker to scale back its bond purchases, Plosser said.
"Reducing the pace of asset purchases in measured steps is moving in the right direction, but the pace may leave us well behind the curve if the economy continues to play out according to the FOMC forecasts," he said.
ALSO:
<<<<1
>>>>2
Last Modified: Tue, Mar 11 2014. 12 46 AM IST
Fed s Charles Plosser sees high bar for change in pace of taper
Plosser says recent encouraging economic data isn t enough to change the pace of Fed s  asset purchases
Subscribe to our newsletter.
Mark Deen Manus Cranny Steve Matthews
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia president Charles Plosser. Photo: Bloomberg
Paris/London/Atlanta: Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia president Charles Plosser , who votes on policy this year, said recent encouraging economic data isn t enough to change the pace of the central bank s asset purchases.
 It would have been nice, from my perspective, had we started at a faster pace,  Plosser said in a Bloomberg Television interview with Manus Cranny in Paris, referring to the Fed s tapering of its stimulus programme.  Given the fact that we ve embarked on measured reductions, it s important to give some certainty or at least clarity to the markets on what we re doing. It s OK to continue at $10 billion. The hurdle rate for change is pretty high in either direction. 
The Fed is trying to determine whether the economy has shown recent signs of weakness because of severe winter weather or fundamental obstacles to growth. The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meets 18-19 March in its first gathering led by chair Janet Yellen since she succeeded Ben S. Bernanke last month.
New York Fed president William C. Dudley said on 7 March he sees a  reasonably favorable  outlook for the economy, even as high unemployment and low inflation warrant stimulus for a  considerable time. 
The US employers added more workers than projected in February, data last week showed, indicating the economy is starting to bounce back from a weather-induced setback. The 175,000 gain in employment followed a revised 129,000 increase the prior month that was bigger than initially estimated.
No Whip-Saw
Improvement in the labour market is one reason the FOMC has trimmed monthly bond purchases by $10 billion in each of its past two meetings. The central bank in January reduced monthly bond purchases to $65 billion.
Policy shouldn t be  whip-sawed from month to month,  Plosser said when asked about the jobs numbers. The numbers were  encouraging,  though they follow other data in the previous two months that were  weak,  he said.
Yellen has pledged to press on with gradual reductions in so-called quantitative easing so long as the economy continues to show signs of improvement.
The Fed has pledged to keep the main interest rate at zero well past the time unemployment falls below 6.5%. Labour department figures showed that joblessness rose to 6.7% in February from 6.6% the month before as more people entered the labour force and couldn t find work.
Plosser, a former University of Rochester economist, became president of the Philadelphia Fed in August 2006. The bank s district includes eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and Delaware. Bloomberg
Jennifer Ryan in London contributed to this story.
<<<<2
>>>>5
Fed's Plosser: Nasty Weather Has Curbed Job Growth
Monday, 10 Mar 2014 08:53 AM
Close 
     A   A
  
Severe winter weather likely affected U.S. jobs growth in February, a top Federal Reserve official said on Monday, the latest U.S. central banker to suggest a bit of weakness in the labor market is only temporary.
In a speech at the Bank of France, Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser pointed to U.S. payroll gains in December, January and February. "All three of these numbers most likely reflected in part the effect of the unusually severe winter weather," he said according to prepared remarks.
A government report on Friday showed U.S. employers added 175,000 jobs last month after creating 129,000 new positions in January. The unemployment rate, meanwhile, rose to 6.7 percent from a five-year low of 6.6 percent as Americans flooded into the labor market to search for work.
Plosser is a long-time critic of the Fed's aggressive bond-buying program, which is meant to spur hiring and economic growth, but which policymakers have trimmed in measured steps despite some weak growth in jobs, manufacturing and retail sales in the world's largest economy so far this year.
Aside from the reference to the jobs report, Plosser's speech was largely the same as a speech he gave in London on March 6.
  2017 Thomson/Reuters.  All rights reserved.
Click Here to comment on this article
Close 
<<<<5
>>>>6
 Interactive Charts
 Default Setting
Please note that once you make your selection, it will apply to all future visits to NASDAQ.com.      If, at any time, you are interested in reverting to our default settings, please select Default Setting above.
If you have any questions or encounter any issues in changing your default settings, please email isfeedback@nasdaq.com .
CLOSEX
Please confirm your selection:
You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;      unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your      cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings?
YES
NO
CLOSEX
Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.
CLOSEX
<<<<6
>>>>7
Published: Mar 10, 2014 8:11 a.m. ET
Share
Central bank may find itself behind the curve, Philly Fed boss says
By
GabrieleParussini
WilliamHorobin
PARISn   The Federal Reserve may have to accelerate the pace of tapering to take into account the economic pickup currently ongoing in the U.S. and the improving forecast for the near future, Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President Charles Plosser said Monday.
 We must back away from increasing the degree of policy accommodation in a manner commensurate with an improving economy,  Plosser told a panel in Paris.  Reducing the pace of asset purchases in measured steps is moving in the right direction, but the pace may leave us well behind the curve if the economy continues to play out according to the FOMC forecasts. 
Based on the latest gross domestic product numbers, the U.S. economy accelerated its pace of expansion in the second half of 2013 from the first half. Real output showed growth of 3.3% from 1.8% in the first half.
As the economic outlook improves, the Fed announced in January its second cut to its monthly purchase program to $65 billion. At the current pace, the FOMC will end the purchase program later this year.
But Plosser noted the pace may not be fast enough.
 If the economy continues to improve, we could find ourselves still trying to increase accommodation in an environment in which history suggests that policy should perhaps be moving in the opposite direction,  Plosser said.
He also raised concerns about how the Fed might ultimately reduce the size of its balance sheet without disrupting inflation or the economy.
 Knock on wood it would all go very smoothly, but you never know,  he said in a question-and-answer session after the speech.
More must-reads on MarketWatch:
<<<<7
>>>>8
Korean
Disclaimer
Note: All information on this page is subject to change. The use of this website constitutes acceptance of our user agreement. Please read our privacy policy and legal disclaimer.
Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts.
Opinions expressed at FXStreet are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily represent the opinion of FXStreet or its management. FXStreet has not verified the accuracy or basis-in-fact of any claim or statement made by any independent author: errors and Omissions may occur.Any opinions, news, research, analyses, prices or other information contained on this website, by FXStreet, its employees, partners or contributors, is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment advice. FXStreet will not accept liability for any loss or damage, including without limitation to, any loss of profit, which may arise directly or indirectly from use of or reliance on such information.
<<<<8
>>>>10
The Oil Man: Amerisur, Sound, Victoria Oil, Premier Oil 
Thu, 16th March 2017 - 12:54
Oil industry analyst Malcolm Graham-Wood has seen it all. Here, he gives Interactive Investor his opinion on the sector's top stories.
Share Watch: Patisserie Valerie, Murgitroyd, RWS, Victrex, Zytronic
Thu, 16th March 2017 - 10:25
While Patisserie Valerie's price looks high, with proven management, a  winning format and the ability to fund new stores out of cash flow, it  may not be, argues analyst Richard Beddard.
This heavyweight miner may have bottomed out
Thu, 16th March 2017 - 09:14
This blue-chip share has just been manipulated below a trend line, which is never great, admits chartist Alistair Strang. But there is a glimmer of hope here.
<<<<10
>>>>11
Business News | Mon Mar 10, 2014 | 9:48pm IST
ECB unlikely to end sterilization of SMP purchases: traders
FULL COVERAGE:
INDIA ELECTIONS 2017
The euro sign landmark is seen at the headquarters (R) of the European Central Bank (ECB) in Frankfurt September 2, 2013. REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach
BANGALORE The European Central Bank will not stop sterilizing bond purchases it made at the height of the euro zone's debt crisis, a majority of euro money market traders polled by Reuters said.
The ECB bought bonds of some troubled peripheral countries through its Securities Market Programme (SMP) in an attempt to counter spiking yields as the crisis worsened.
In order to keep the money supply stable and avoid fuelling inflation, it "sterilizes" the purchases by offering deposits equal in value to the government bonds it holds.
Eighteen of 23 traders polled expected the central bank to continue doing that, while only five said it would stop.
Some economists and investors had expected the ECB to announce a halt to sterilization at last Thursday's monthly policy meeting, to boost excess liquidity in the financial system and help bring down interbank lending rates.
In the event, it left interest rates on hold and unveiled no other measures to bolster the fragile euro zone recovery, and ECB chief Mario Draghi said the benefits of not sterilizing would be "relatively limited".
The poll predicted that banks will repay 4.0 billion euros ($5.5 billion) of the ECB's three-year emergency loans next week, less than half the 11.4 billion euros they are set to return this week.
The euro zone's central bank pumped over a trillion euros into banks' coffers in two long-term refinancing operations in December 2011 and February 2012 to help lenders ride out funding constraints.
Banks have repaid a little more than half of those loans since January last year, helping push excess liquidity - cash beyond what lenders need to cover their day-to-day operations - down to levels seen before the twin ECB operations.
This week's repayments are more than six times the amount that was expected, accelerating the drain of extra cash out of the bloc's financial system. When asked if the ECB would take steps to provide more liquidity, 14 of 24 traders said they would.
Of those 14 traders who expect a boost, nine said it would come in six months, three in the next three months and the remaining two in a year.
The regular survey showed banks are expected to borrow 90.0 billion euros at the weekly refinancing tender and 6.5 billion euros in a one-month operation.
Eighty-seven billion euros is maturing this week for the one week tender and 6.5 billion euros for the one month.
($1 = 0.7214 euros)
(Reporting by Siddharth Iyer; Polling by Diptarka Roy; Editing by Catherine Evans)
Next In Business News
<<<<11